Saga: Improve Modal documentation (#117)
grafana/design-system: docs/05-components/modal.mdx

draft: true
---

# Modal <Badge text='draft' color='orange'></Badge> <StorybookLink path='/docs/overlays-modal--basic'/>

## Overview
`Modals` are used to display content to users that needs immediate attention or is critical to their current user flow. When a modal is open, users are unable to interact with the on-page content behind the modal and cannot return to the previous workflow until the user completes the requirement or dismisses the modal.

### When to Use
- There is a need for an immediate response from the user. 
- Notify the user of urgent information concerning their current work.
- Confirm a user decision.
- Avoid using a modal when the task should be repeatedly done by the user.
- Do not use modals for non-essential information that’s not related to the current workflow.

> 

Reviewer: Should these two be under a separate "When not use section"?

## Usage

> [//]: # (Lists different options/props for the component, each with a code sample, and more specific usage guidelines. Includes Dos & Don'ts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In the main component has these props:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main component has these props:
```

> - title: title for the modal or custom header element
> - className 
> - contentClassName: specific class for the content of the modal
> - closeOnEscape
> - closeOnBackdropClick
> - trapFocus: whether to restore focus back to the element that was focused when the focus scope mounted, after the focus scope unmounts.
> - isOpen
> - onDismiss
> - onClickBackdrop: if not set will call onDismiss if that is set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `title` - title for the modal or custom header element
- `className` 
- `contentClassName` - specific class for the content of the modal
- `closeOnEscape`
- `closeOnBackdropClick`
- `trapFocus` - whether to restore focus back to the element that was focused when the focus scope mounted, after the focus scope unmounts.
- `isOpen`
- `onDismiss`
- `onClickBackdrop` - if not set will call `onDismiss` if that is set
```

> ModalTabsHeader: custom header element with tabs that has the following props.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ModalTabsHeader - custom header element with tabs that has the following props:
```

> - icon
> - title
> - tabs
> - activeTab
> - onChangeTab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `icon`
- `title`
- `tabs`
- `activeTab`
- `onChangeTab`
```

## Types and Behaviors
1. [Basic Modal](https://developers.grafana.com/ui/latest/index.html?path=/story/overlays-modal--basic): the basic modal with the default header, main content, close buttons and/or action buttons.

> 2. [Modal using Content ClassName](https://developers.grafana.com/ui/latest/index.html?path=/story/overlays-modal--using-content-class-name): in this case the modal content has applied an specific class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Modal using the contentClassName prop](https://developers.grafana.com/ui/latest/index.html?path=/story/overlays-modal--using-content-class-name): in this case the modal content has applied a specific class.
```

3. [Modal with tabs](https://developers.grafana.com/ui/latest/index.html?path=/story/overlays-modal--with-tabs): in this ocassion, the modal has tabs, each of one with its main content and buttons.

## Accessibility 
[Dialog (Modal) Pattern](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/dialog-modal/)
Please check the keyboard's behaviour when building a modal. We have noticed that when the content is overflowing, the user cannot scroll it unless:

> The modal contains interactive elements, such as buttons, on the bottom.
> The content has `tabIndex = 0`, and therefore, it can be keyboard-focusable.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The modal contains interactive elements, such as buttons, on the bottom.
- The content has `tabIndex = 0`, and therefore, it can be keyboard-focusable.

```

> draft: true

Author: @Clarity-89 @staton-hyse11 Do I have to delete the `draft: true` line in order to get this documentation published in Saga? Otherwise, I think it will not be shown 🤔

Reviewer: You can either delete that line, or set `draft: false`, I think both should work.
